This, why does God chase after us?
Why does God pursue us?
Why did God pursued Jonah?
Because the more people that God tax
that he gets ahold of that get ahold
of who God is, the bigger that group
gets the sharks and I'm, so that
sharks sounds really bad as a follower.
So don't miss this.
Okay.
I'm trying to bring it around here.
As God continues to use that as
God continues to grow the church.
Brings us in, you know, what, what
I found on Tuesday, it was easier to
get the other people because we worked
together at one moment, we strategize,
I pulled the kids together and I
said, guys, we're going to get mad
because Matt was playing all of us.
Whenever we say go we're all.
Well, there was eight of us.
We're going to run towards Matt and Matt.
Won't be able to get missed.
And that's what happened.
It happened quick.
Didn't it?
It was.
Yes, it was over quick.
Yes.
So I want to encourage you in this
idea of why does God pursue you?
Why did God pursued Jonah?
The one, whatever.
There was 120,000 people that
just got done giving their lives
to Christ or given the lives to
God are repenting in this book.
And I'm going to catch you up if you're
wondering where round my catch you up.
Why did God go after the one Jonah?
Because God cared about the
one, you know, it talks about,
he leaves the 99 to go to the.
God pursues us because he wants us to
be a part of helping pursue other people
to discover God's purpose for their
life through relationship with Jesus.
See, I think that's so-called
that God cares about you.
He hears about me so much that
he's going to pursue us to be
a part of God's ultimate plan.
And when we work together as a church,
it's easier to reach other people, right.
Because we're a team and we can do that.
So I asked that idea behind,
have you ever played tag?
And so I'm going to challenge
you in this and, and just, you
can consider this in your heart.
Have you ever ran from something?
Maybe it's a relationship,
maybe it was a job.
Maybe it was a call, um, on your
life that God had given you maybe.
So this story today will speak to you.
Right?
So as the story of Jonah is really a
picture of a man who was a prophet, right.
A prophet, someone who had received the
word of God directly, but yet he ran.
And so maybe you've ran
from something in your life.
You've regretted it.
Maybe currently you're running from.
You'll relate with Jonah today.
You'll relate with him, but we have a
choice to make that maybe he didn't make.
And so I think it's interesting how tragic
tragic it is to see a prophet of God
Jonah run from the Lord and continually.
But I think it's even more tragic as
today, as we see children of God run
from the Lord and it's because God has
something better for us yet we run.
Right.
Um, and so let me kind of catch you up.
I'm going to kind of walk through
these chapters, try to be quick so
we can jump in and dive into the
text today in Jonah chapter four, but
chapter one, Jonah, what does God say?
God says, go and Jonah says, whoa.
No, I'm not going right.
So he runs to tortious, gets down
into a boat, falls asleep, a storm
comes the sailors, basically say, Hey,
Jonah, call out to your God, Jonah
doesn't um, they say, Hey, who's the
one that's causing this storm, Jonah.
Doesn't fess up.
Finally, they cast lots.
They figure out it's Jonah and
Jonah says, throw me off the ship.
And they say, Hey, wait, let's try
to wrote a shore to save your life.
And they tried, it didn't work.
So they ask God, please, God
don't count this against us.
They threw Jonah off the boat.
And God calm the storm.
And I want to read this, this first two
in Jonah chapter one, it says this in
verse 16, John chapter one, and the men
were seized by great fear of the Lord.
And they offered a sacrifice
to the Lord and may vows.
So the first group to turn
to the Lord was not Jonah.
It was the people.
It was the men on the boat.
So now we see chapter two, some
deep sea diving is what I would
say, deep sea diving from Jonah.
So he goes down so deep in the ocean that
he gets into the belly of a fish, right?
God, uh, points that fish
to, to put them there.
And so Jonah spins three days and
three nights in this belly, right?
Why does God do that?
Because God is trying to
get Jonah's attention.
So finally, what we believe
is we begin to study this.
It's probably the end of the third
day that Jonah finally gets desperate
enough to say, Hey, I don't like.
Experiencing here in the belly I want out.
And so here's what he says in
chapter two, verse seven, he says,
that's, my life was fading away.
I remembered the Lord and my prayer
came to you to your holy temple.
So this, this moment where Joan was like,
okay, I'm done living in this belly.
I want to go.
Or whatever it is that you need to do to.
Use me I'm going to,
uh, I'm going to do it.
So he, he is obviously the Lord
vomits him out on the ocean, out on
the sea or shore, whatever it is.
Uh, and basically we see the end of
verse, um, our chapter two in that way.
So now what happens chapter
three, here's the one of my
favorite chapters of the book.
What I call obedience and human.
Leads to life change.
So we see Jonah, right?
God says, go.
And Jonah went, Jonah went
with the message of the Lord.
And a lot of times Joanie gets
criticized for his short message
that he spoke to Nineveh.
Um, here's what I would say.
It says, Jonah spoke the
word that the Lord gave him.
So I'm going to stop there and say,
Hey, Jonah did what God told him to do.
In most likely God told him that
short sentence, because he didn't
want Jonah to get the glory for
his ability to speak elegantly.
He wanted to use God's
power right through Jonah.
And so.
Jonas spoke and the people of Nineveh
respondent, there was 120,000 people in
Nineveh that were not honoring the Lord.
And so, you know, kind of, kind
of bring this, these people
in Nineveh were Jonah's enemy.
They were people who
persecuted Jonah's people.
And so Jonah hated them.
Joni didn't like them.
Joanie didn't want to.
To Nineveh to see them repent, but
they did repent over this message.
And one of the interesting parts about it
is the king of Nineveh led out the charge.
He stepped down from his throne.
He took off his Royal robes and he
put on sackcloth and ashes to show
his true repentance in his heart.
He then set a to, for the whole,
uh, nation of Nineveh and they
followed suit and he says, Hey, seek
out to the Lord, repent and turn.
And maybe the Lord will.
I love this idea guys, there's times
where we're going to desperately seek
the Lord, but we don't truly know.
Okay.
We do, we do truly know the Lord will
forgive us, but they didn't truly
know that the Lord would forgive them.
And this is the interesting part that we
see with God in verse 10 of chapter three,
it says, and God saw their actions that
they had turned from their evil ways.
And so God relented from the
disaster that he had threatened
him and he did not do it.
So God had said he was going to destroy
Nineveh if they did not repent, but.
At this moment, the book should have
ended and here's how it should have ended.
And Jonah celebrated.
And so did the Lord and the people
continue to live out their lives for God.
That's how the story should
have ended, but it didn't.
And this is where chapter four comes in.
Chapter four is an interesting one.
This is where we see Jonas
mad, but God is compassionate.
Jonah's mad.
But God is compassionate.
And we're going to read through all
these verses, um, where we see kind of
the, the full picture of Jonah's story.
If you weren't here a couple of weeks
ago, when we read and study through
the first four verses of Jonah, I
want to bring everybody up to pace
on this, but I want to mention this.
This idea is.
Jonah is basically mad at the people
repented and that God was gracious.
And verse two says this, it
says chapter four says, I knew
that you are a gracious and